I wrote a paper on this and need help with citations. I need you to copy and paste my text but add citations as needed for each respective statement given the documents I gave you as supportive evidence. Please tell me when you are ready and I will proceed with giving you the text.



Rigorously write, schematize and develop the "'Reaction Pathways, P-T Ranges, and Kinetic Constraints" section of the scientific document "Falsify alternatives.pdf" in a table, with full explanations, taking this into consideration: " The reaction between water and iron at the CMB that creates P-phase can lead to the formation of an interlayer with an extremely oxygen-rich form of iron, iron dioxide (FeO2Hx), together with iron hydride [26]. It can also result in the local accumulation of FeO-rich layers at the bottom of the mantle, along with partial melting:

“Water emerges as a crucial component facilitating active chemical reactions between the core and mantle owing to its siderophile nature and exceptionally high mobility through minerals. Experimental studies suggest that surface water is transported to the deep lower mantle via hydrous phases and nominally anhydrous minerals through plate subduction. FeO2Hx domains resulting from iron–water reactions at the CMB can effectively explain the density and seismic wave velo-cities of both P- and S-waves in ULVZs. However, a recent study considering realistic water concentration, the unlimited availability of iron in the core and the limited water supply resulting from mantle downflow revealed that the FeO2Hx phase becomes unstable and looses hydrogen, leading to the local accumulation of FeO-rich layers at the bottom of the mantle. Strong partitioning of hydrogen into liquid iron within ULVZs, as revealed in recent studies, also suggests instability of FeO2Hx owing to hydrogen incorporation into the core.”[8]





In summary, an upper oxidized mantle corresponds to a chemical environment where high oxygen fugacity leads to carbon and hydrogen existing primarily in oxidized forms (carbonates, hydroxyls/water), which upon degassing are released as CO2 and H2O. This is considered crucial for the planet's long-term climate regulation. 

Both of these mechanisms, oxidation in the mantle and decomposition of mantle FeO into P-phase and then back into CMB FeO thanks to Hydrogen, interact in a complex manner, that is not grasped quite easily at first glance (apparently not even by the study that talks about the ORP and decomposition):

The  oxygen released by the CMB during ORP decomposition, when it interacts with a wet mantle high in Hydrogen, creates water and liberates CO2, and not VOCs. This makes the planet habitable. If the mantle is dry, the Hydrogen cycle is not only cut short, but increases the instability of the ORP due to lack of Hydrogen feedback.

In the context of an oxygen‑rich patch (ORP) at the core–mantle boundary, plume initiation hinges on the thermochemical destabilization of hydrous iron oxides (FeO₂Hx) once their hydrogen inventory becomes depleted. Under the generalized reaction if x<1x<1 the residual solid releases free O₂ (and/or forms other oxidized volatiles by reacting with ambient C–, S–, or N–bearing phases). This sudden injection of molecular oxygen (or secondary CO₂, H₂O, SO₂, NO₂) into the lowermost mantle dramatically lowers local rock viscosity, because oxygen‐rich fluids dramatically weaken silicate frameworks, and generates a large buoyancy anomaly. In effect, the ORP “erupts,” much as oversaturated CO₂ catastrophically degasses from a stratified lake: the buoyant, low‐viscosity mixture ascends rapidly, nucleating a thermal‐chemical upwelling or mantle plume.
However, for this process to be self‐limiting rather than runaway, hydrogen must recycle back into the deep hydrous cycle. In a “wet,” oxidized upper mantle, ascending H₂ (or protons transported in hydrous melts) recombines with O₂ to reform H₂O, re‐wetting the mantle and buffering redox conditions. That feedback restores viscosity and damps subsequent oxygen pulses. In contrast, a “dry” (hydrogen‐starved) mantle cannot recombine O₂ efficiently; the ORP remains over‐oxidized, large successive oxygen eruptions become more likely, and the mantle can undergo large‐scale overturn, with large scale VOC release. These large oxygen eruptions, due to convection, could plausibly speed up Earth’s rotation to an abnormal degree.
I.E, the upper mantle must have an abundance of water, and a disproportionation of FeO to Fe2O3-bearing perovskite and iron metal in the lower mantle from reactions with hydrogen (also from water), to favor the production of the CMB FeO layer (created as shedding from P-phase decomposition). This triggers H2O and CO2 liberation, and makes the planet’s rotation stable, coupled, and habitable.

If the mantle does not receive water, the lower mantle undergoes large scale oxidation, the CMB FeO decomposes due to lack of P-phase creation, liberating O2 and creating very large plumes, which, under failure to interact with a wet mantle, liberate Methane and H2 in the Lithosphere-Asthenosphere boundary.

